Hello, everyone.
So today we are going to learn a new project in Java in the City of Learning Java project.
So basically this application is a notepad clone made in Java and we have named it as Node in Down.
So in this application, we are going to learn our very own notepad application in our system and that
tool in Java.
So using basic Java concepts and libraries, we are going to create a very, very beautiful notepad
application with multiple features inside it.
So this notepad feature contains a file, an edit and a help button in the navigation panel.
This is the about page of the notepad application.
The about page gives us a quick intro of this application we are going to make.
So this I have set it as conventional notepad version 2.0.
So we can see that it is an appropriate edition of the conventional notepad we are going to use like
we are using from many years in our system.
So yes, we are going to make a notepad of our own in Java with very simple hard coding.
So let us take a look at this application and what it consists of.
So this is the about page of the notepad application.
Or we can say it as noted down.
Also, this is the home page of the loaded down application.
The home page consists of the title bar, the bar and the body section.
Thus bar contains various options itself.
So let us take a look at the specifications of this project.
So we are going to make a notepad clone, and this is the main specification of this project.
In this notepad, user can input a text by writing it with any style on the screen and you will get
output as written.
The type text output on the screen of the user.
The notepad alone contains features such as find, edit, help, and so on.
Even after writing the text document, the project we are making, the document we are going to create.
We can save it, print it, copy the part of the text, paste it anywhere in the text field, wherever
we want, and so many other interesting features this app consists of.
So we can also save our text, which are which we are writing.
We can open we can even open the investment documents that text document inside our system in this notepad.
So I hope you got an idea about this project.
Like apart from editing, saving, copying, pasting it, we can even open files from our system and
edit it also and save it after editing.
So there is no foundation that you have to write text head only and then save it.
You can also use an inbuilt document and that could be edited also.
So let us take a look at the.
Concepts we are going to learn after completing this project.
Yes.
So the first question may arise in your right mind before going to make any project.
But what will be the consequences of this project?
What are the relevant concepts we are going to learn after making this project?
So you are not done.
This question is very natural concern.
One can arise before making a project.
So yes, let me give a quick explanation about the concepts behind this project.
So my project is made in abstract window thinking of the abstract.
The toolkit is the part of the Java foundational classes.
So AWP it is abbreviated as so.
Yes, AWP is a standard API for providing a graphical user interface for any Java program.
So yes, we are going to build this notepad as a text window interface like you will, getting a frame
outside the application in a separate window.
So with the help of AWP, we are going to do this together, the UI of the application and it gives
a very good experience to the users of the application, a good experience to the user using this interface
as it will open in a separate window, they can perform their tasks and there is no no confliction.
Yes.
No contradiction between the program and the window interface of the application as we see.
So AWP was designed as a common set of tools for the UI design that could work on a variety of platforms.
But the program is written in Java.
So this is a core Java tutorial.
There are no complex languages and libraries involved.
As I said earlier, since Code Java is being used to the to hardcore program.
So you will be going to learn a Java notepad application to make a Java notepad.
Yes.
And if there is Java, then there will be classes and objects and.
Of course, you will be going to learn the applications of classes, objects and methods in Java with
examples while making this project.
So yes, also this project is going to use various components of Java string like frame, g, text,
Java, etc..
Like Java String contains a variety of components which helps us to apply it in our program without
writing so much.
Often we just have to call the components and the output is output is shown on the interface of the
user where the app is being run.
So you may be wondering that why this Java thing when we are already using AWP in Java?
So the answer to this question is showing the improved UI API that extends the abstract thinking.
So basically swing is an extension to the API we are using in Java.
So of course, if it is an extension, it contains more features and more classes, which helps us to
make our projects more attractive in many ways.
So with the use of abstraction in the toolkit and three, together we are going to build a good library
for this application and use all the components required in this application.
So let me give you a quick introduction about what the Java AWP hierarchy is that we are going to use
in this format.
Like I will introduce you with terms as a component container window panel and see.
So let's get into it.
So yes, this is Java AWP hierarchy.
The hierarchy of Java AWP classes are listed here, like if we call Java AWP package in our Java program,
what we are actually getting.
So we are getting a component which consists container and inside the container we have a window and
a panel.
Inside the window we have a frame.
So.
Yes.
What our container is.
Container is a component in AWP.
Container is a subclass of the component class.
Yes.
As we have already seen, container is the subclass of the component class.
What is a panel?
A panel is a concrete subclass of container.
So aligning the components here.
Some the hierarchy sees that we have a containing.
So this part is the container which contains Barton's text filled tables and so many other things.
The panel is the concrete surplus of the container.
So yes, this is the panel.
The inside part is the panel.
Panel does not contains the title bar or menu, not even a border.
So is the part excluding the border.
And the title bar is our panel.
The window window is the complete window we are going to open after running the project.
And the frame in the frame of this project, like we have a frame for title, we have a frame for the
nav bar and we have upstream for the main body of the notice.
So yes, we have given all the prerequisite knowledge is prerequisite knowledge about this project.
So now we are going to run the code of the program and learn how to write the code.
We are going to learn each part of the code that what this part is doing and what that part is doing.
And by step by step, we are going to create our very own notepad in Java.
So without any further delays, let's start with creating a new Java project in our IDE.